# **Creating the workspace**

## **Create catkin workspace**

1. Oepn a terminal 

2. Create a root workspace directory. For now we are naming it as ```catkin_ws```

```
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
```
 + Move to newly created workspace

 ```
 cd ~/catkin_ws/src
```

3. Initialize the catkin workspace

```
catkin_init_workspace
```

+ If there is any mistake then there will be error in prior command

4. Build the workspace

```
cd ~/catkin_ws
```

```
catkin_make
```

5. Now you can see ```build``` and ```devel``` after the building the workspace

10. Write the following command for adding this as a source in your ***.bashrc*** file

```
echo "~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc
```


## **ROS PACKAGE**

+ Software in ROS is organized in packages. A package might contain ROS nodes, a ROS-independent library, a dataset, configuration files, a third-party piece of software, or anything else that logically constitutes a useful module. The goal of these packages it to provide this useful functionality in an easy-to-consume manner so that software can be easily reused. In general, ROS packages follow a "Goldilocks" principle: enough functionality to be useful, but not too much that the package is heavyweight and difficult to use from other software.( It's directly taken from the ROS wiki)

## **CREATING A ROS PACKAGE**

1. Navigate to the ```src``` folder.

```
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
```

2. Use ```catkin_create_pkg``` command for creating a package

```
catkin_create_pkg ros_basics std_msgs rospy roscpp
```

+ Here 
    + ```catkin_create_pkg```
        + It's command for creating the package
        
    + ```ros_basics```
        + It's the name of the package

    + ```rospy, std_msg, roscpp``` are the dependencies

Like this:
```
catkin_create_pkg <package_name> [depend1] [depend2] [depend3]
```

3. Now you need to build the package

```
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin_make
```

## **ROS NODE**

+ ROS Node is a piece a software or executable that will use ROS to communicate with other ROS Nodes

+ ROS Nodes are building blocks

+ You can write entire application in a Node but it's will be risky
    + Multiple nodes ensures that if a node crashes it won't crash your entire ROS application.
    + A ROS package can have multiple ROS Nodes
    + Python and C++ are majorly used to write ROS Nodes.
    + We will use python for making the nodes

## **CREATING A ROS NODE**

1. Navigate to the ```ros_basics```

```
cd ~/catkin_ws/src/ros_basics
```

2. Make a script folder for saving python nodes
```
mkdir scripts
cd scripts
```

3. Create a python file for making the node

```
gedit hello_ros.py
```

4. Code explaination 

```
#!/usr/bin/env python

import rospy


def main():    
    
    # 1. Make the script a ROS Node.
    rospy.init_node('node_hello_ros', anonymous=True)

    # 2. Print info on console.
    rospy.loginfo("Hello World!")
    
    # 3. Keep the node alive till it is killed by the user.
    rospy.spin()


if __name__ == '__main__':
    try:
        main()
    except rospy.ROSInterruptException:
        pass
```

+ ```#!/usr/bin/env python```

    + It will select python interpriter, BTW this is ```shebang```
+ This code will print ```Hello World!```


+ make this file as executable

```
sudo chmod +x node_hello_ros.py
```

## **RUNNING THE ROSNODE**

1. Run rosmaster

```
roscore
```

2. Now open a new terminal run the following command

```
rosrun pkg_ros_basics node_hello_ros.py
```

+ Output

```
[INFO] [1601277063.968749]: Hello World!
```



## **FOLLOW THIS LINK FOR UNDERSTANDING THE MORE ABOUT ROS TOPICS, NODES, SUBSCRIBERS PUBLISHERS**

[MORE ROS](https://youtu.be/C6BlNbeU3fQ)

 + Continue with the ROS_COMMUNICATION_TOPIC.md

 

